Artificial Intelligence (AI) represents the simulation of human intelligence processes by computer systems. These processes include learning, reasoning, and self-correction. Machine Learning is a foundational subset of Artificial Intelligence that provides systems the ability to automatically learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed. Machine learning focuses on the development of computer programs that can access data and use it to learn for themselves.

The process of learning begins with observations or data, such as examples, direct experience, or instruction, in order to look for patterns in data and make better decisions in the future based on the examples that we provide. The primary aim is to allow the computers to learn automatically without human intervention or assistance and adjust actions accordingly.

Supervised machine learning algorithms can apply what has been learned in the past to new data using labeled examples to predict future events. Starting from the analysis of a known training dataset, the learning algorithm produces an inferred function to make predictions about the output values. The system is able to provide targets for any new input after sufficient training. The learning algorithm can also compare its output with the correct, intended output and find errors in order to modify the model accordingly.

In contrast, unsupervised machine learning algorithms are used when the information used to train is neither classified nor labeled. Unsupervised learning studies how systems can infer a function to describe a hidden structure from unlabeled data. The system does not figure out the right output, but it explores the data and can draw inferences from datasets to describe hidden structures from unlabeled data.

Deep learning is a specialized subfield of machine learning based on artificial neural networks with representation learning. The adjective deep in deep learning refers to the use of multiple layers in the network. Early work showed that a linear perceptron cannot be a universal classifier, but a network with a non-polynomial activation function and one hidden layer of unbounded width can. Deep learning models such as convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks have revolutionized computer vision, natural language processing, speech recognition, and bioinformatics.
